Alrighty, here is how to setup Whonix for safe, tor-filtered browsing as a VM. 
My Hypervisor (what I use to manage / run my Virtual Machines) will be Virtualbox, which is recommended on the Whonix website.
---
Step 1: Go to the Whonix (https://www.whonix.org/) webpage.
- In the top toolbar, click 'Download'.
- For me, I will be installing it within VirtualBox, so click VirtualBox.
Scroll down a little and press the big blue 'Download Whonix ™ Xfce' Button.

This will begin a 2.1GB Install for the Whonix XFCE .ova file.
This file is a Virtual Appliance file. It holds multiple files into one, like an archive, making it easier to install into a hypervisor such as VirtualBox.

- Once that has finished downloading, which for me took like 30 minutes coz my internet is just 'lightspeed', move on to Step 2.

Step 2: Open VirtualBox and Import the Downloaded .ova file.
----
Now that we have our .ova file downloaded, you can either right-click it, go to 'Open With: ' and open with VirtualBox,
or you can go into virtual box, and on the main page go File > Import Appliance, and select the .ova file.

Once you accept the popups, you will have Whonix-Gateway and Whonix-Workstation installed into virtualbox.

Step 3: The final (basic) setup.

Now, to get you going on your first steps into the exciting Whonix OS, you will need to understand quickly how the gateway and workstation differ.

The Gateway is the vm that acts simply as a tor gateway, like a net that catches things, then forces them through the tor network, ensuring anonymity.
The Workstation is what you open secondly, after getting the gateway up and running, and you use it to perform your activies through tor anonymously.
ALL traffic is routed through Tor, and the workstation is isolated from the internet, and only connects with the gateway to get its connection.

WITH THIS SEEMINGLY SIMPLE SYSTEM, it grants the user a lot of op security, and this is why Whonix is a great option for people whos threat model involves not being found in the first place :).

Congrats, you can now get up to all sorts on the dark web. For legal reasons, i do not condone that you get up to all sorts on the dark web however.

Thanks for reading, leave some comments if you enjoyed - LD.
